# Japan Trip: November 3rd-November 15th

To see:
- Pacific Swift
- Japanese Thrush
- Azure-Winged Magpie
- Japanese Cormorant
- Varied Tit

Notes after reading some PDFs from _Bird Research News_:
- Azure-Wing Magpies should be in small flocks.
- Look for Common Cuckoos, Carrion Crows

## November 5th - Yokkaichi

Went for a walk out in the garden near Yokkaichi this morning. There was a Meadow Bunting on a tree top, singing, and a few tree sparrows bouncing around. The Meadow Bunting was new. I borrowed some binoculars and went out. Hiyodori - Brown-eared Bulbul - were everywhere, crying. I saw a few more sparrows and Meadow Bunting, and heard a good deal more. I think I saw a Japanese Leaf Warbler. I saw two birds I haven't been able to identify, since, walking in a field - they looked something like doves, but between doves and wagtails - they lacked the wagging but walked with more of a stalk than doves do. They were grey and white with some brown, and had black bibs. I have no idea what they were, but they didn't act like Japanese wagtails, which is the closest description, although too small.

### On Mt. Gozaisho

While I heard a good amount of birds, I only saw a few species. Of course, Jungle crows were everywhere, and I heard a good deal of hiyodori. I managed to see a Lesser Spotted Woodpecker, identified after by process of elimination of Japanese woodpeckers. Halfway up the mountain, my host pointed out two Coal Tits to me, up in a pine tree - identified after by process of elimination, too. On top of the mountain, I thought I might have seen a Black Kite, but looking at the form later online, I don't think it could have been, it wasn't large enough. Looking online now, I se that ravens soar; that must have been what this was.

### Walking at night

This was largely uninteresting; Tree Sparrows tend to shut up when you walk near them, and hiyodori are horrifying when they cry. But I also saw two Daurian Redstarts, identified afterwards by the large white patch on the wing, and the black-ish neck. Looking from below, I thought the entire head was black, but I don't seem to see that now, online. I'm worried that I didn't see the light crown. I'm not sure if I have correctly identified this, and will have to leave it off; the bird I saw had a greener underbelly, a brown head, and dakr wings with a white patch. Unfortunately, due to the dusk and my colorblindness, I'm not sure that the bottom was green, at all. I saw many cormorants flying overhead.

## November 6  - Yokkaichi

Went out at around 6:30. There were some hiyodori, meadow bunting (houjiro), tree sparrows (suzume), and crows (karasu). I walked around for a while; I saw a Grey Heron, which I've already seen in Britain, but was new to this country. I saw a few Bull-Headed Shrike, which I thought was two species, but afterwards researched and discovered were just one new species. I also saw some female Daurian Redstarts, but no males - or they're discolored as it isn't breeding season. I also saw a bird that I couldn't identify at all, a larger bird with a breast something like a starling. I think it might have been an immature cuckoo, but the coloration was so regular and dark that that doesn't sound right. I don't know what it is. I wandered a bit out of the way to follow a bird of prey I thought I saw in the distance, but I couldn't find it again.

## November 7 - Yokkaichi and Oiso

I walked for a good distance this morning, early, right after dawn. I was looking for a kiji, or Green Pheasant, so I tried to stick to the fields. I ended up walking down through the bamboo forest to the rice fields, and along them for the better part of two hours. I never saw a pheasant; however, I did see two or three herons, including ones that were roosting in trees; many crows; some form of Bustard, but I wasn't close enough to identify it properly; many Grey-headed Lapwings (keri), which were new to me and quite beautiful; some Bull-headed Shrikes, Hiyodori (bulbuls), tree sparrows, and the ever-present Jungle crows (harasu). Towards the end I saw two spectacular male Daurian Redstarts, which was nice. I also saw a huge flock of Cormorants, probably around fifty, flying over the river, and both species of Wagtail; both White and Japanese. It is not hard to tell them apart if you are aware of the differences.

On the train to Nagoya, I saw more of the same; in the rivers we passed, I saw coots (which I've seen in Scotland), some ducks that had a white tip on the front of their bill bills, which I just now (thirty minutes later, in a cafe) have positively identified as Spot-billed Ducks.

## November 8 - Oiso to Hakone

Saw many Black Kites while walking and driving from Oiso to Odawara. I saw more in Hakone, at least three. In the morning, my AirBnB host went biking with me to find Kiji - didn't see anything, unfortunately, but many pigeons, doves, crows, and the usual Japanese birds - shrikes, wagtails, bulbul's, sparrows. In the river, however, walking back, I saw some Spot-Billed Ducks and some small brown ducks I identified later as Eurasian Wigeons. I saw more that evening in Hakone.

In the evening, there were three species of wagtail in the rivers - White, Japanese, and Yellow-Bellied.

## November 9 - Hakone

Saw some Pygmy Woodpeckers in a tree, very small, along with some White-Eyes and a large blue bird I couldn't identify, which I saw later flying up and down the river, too. A bird in a tree - green all over, with black wings and a white blazon in them, sitting on top of the tree. Small like a Bull-Headed Shrike, but missing the blazon. More ducks, wagtails, kites, and crows. Some birds I heard that I couldn't identify on the hike. Saw two cormorants flying high above, strangely.

## To Do
- [ ] Find the Pacific Swift. House Swifts appear to be very rare and only in a few colonies. May be possible to find somewhere, though.
- [ ] See if you can research the Hwamei.
- [ ] Look up the Common Cuckoo
- [ ] White Wagtails have overlapping ranges with Japanese Wagtails: Look up the difference.
- [ ] Difference between Carrion Crow and Jungle Crows